# nitishku16-Chronic-Kidney-Disease-Prediction
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has received much attention due to its high mortality rate. Chronic diseases have become a concern threatening developing countries, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) [1]. CKD is a kidney disorder treatable in its early stages, but it causes kidney failure in its late stages. In 2016, chronic kidney disease caused the death of 753 million people worldwide, where the number of males died was 336 million, while the number of females died was 417 million [2]. It is called “chronic” disease because the kidney disease begins gradually and lasts for a long time, which affects the functioning of the urinary system. The accumulation of waste products in the blood leads to the emergence of other health problems, which are associated with several symptoms such as high and low blood pressure, diabetes, nerve damage, and bone problems, which lead to cardiovascular disease. Risk factors for CKD patients include diabetes, blood pressure, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) [3]. CKD patients suffer from side effects, especially in the late stages, which damage the nervous and immune system. In developing countries, patients may reach the late stages, so they must undergo dialysis or kidney transplantation. Medical experts determine kidney disease through glomerular filtration rate (GFR), which describes kidney function. GFR is based on information such as age, blood test, gender, and other factors suffered by the patient [4]. Regarding the GFR value, doctors can classify CKD into five stages. Table 1 shows the different stages of kidney disease development with GFR levels
